Hi, I'm Lisa Garr, host
of "Gaiam Inspirations."
And today, we are going
on a longevity world tour,
exploring some of the
most exotic health
foods of the world through
the eyes of David Wolfe.
He is one of the
world's top authorities
on natural health,
beauty, nutrition,
herbalism, chocolate,
and organic superfoods.
Welcome.
-How you doing?
LISA GARR: This is
going to be so much fun.
I'm looking forward to this.
Great to be back.
Yes.
And great to be
back in this country.
Oh my god.
I had a great trip
around the world.
It was absolutely magical.
You're so-- on your
Instagram account,
I see comments that are
saying, I want your job.
It's amazing, the job that I
actually developed for myself.
Sometimes, I look at it.
I'm thinking, my god, I
get to travel the world,
do what I want, and have
fun, and get paid to do it.
LISA GARR: This is a job?
-It's amazing.
Yeah.
And I kind of think I
got onto that early.
I'd better do something
that I really, really love,
because where your
heart lies, that's where
your treasures will be found.
That's where your passion is.
So why or how did you
get into these world
treasures of food and herbalism
and why and how things grow?
What drew you towards that?
I think is some
of it is genetic.
Some of it's family trait.
Some of it is my aunt, who
is really into exotic food
and gourmet food.
And my first job was working
in her grocery store as a kid.
So I was exposed to
these exotic vanillas
and exotic spices and all
these things that she loved.
And as I got into doing
raw foods and talks
about raw foods, I just
had a natural penchant
for exotic fruits.
And then that developed into
exotic herbs and superfoods
and all the rest of
the incredible things
that are out there.
So we're going to go on a
little bit of a world tour
here and look at
some of the slides
that David is sharing with us
of some of these exotic fruits--
foods and fruits from
around the world.
So what is this first one?
What are we looking at here?
DAVID WOLFE: This
is peanut butter
fruit, or bunchosia argentea.
LISA GARR: Doesn't peanut
butter come from peanuts?
DAVID WOLFE: Right.
Well, yeah, it
comes from peanuts.
But this fruit tastes
like peanut butter.
LISA GARR: You're kidding.
DAVID WOLFE: It's brilliant.
The flavor is so good.
LISA GARR: That's perfect,
because most peanut butter
is kind of rancid, isn't it?
DAVID WOLFE: Yeah
And it's fatty.
And this isn't.
This is more like leukoma.
It's more like eggfruit.
It's kind of a little bit
starchy, a little bit sweet,
but definitely the peanut
butter notes are there.
It's originally
from South America.
And it's one of those fruits
that once you taste it,
it just takes you
there instantly.
LISA GARR: Interesting.
DAVID WOLFE: Yeah.
Wow, in South American--
did you go and find this?
This was actually in Maui.
I was visiting a friend of mine.
Actually, I was out visiting
my friend Woody Harrelson.
And his neighbor is a
very old friend of mine.
In fact, I used to go to his
farm at the very beginning
when he first got that farm.
And he was feeding us all
of his favorite stuff.
And so this was in
season at the time.
LISA GARR: Very cool,
so you took a picture.
-We took a picture.
-I know, but this is gorgeous.
This is absolutely beautiful.
What is this?
DAVID WOLFE: This is the
Egyptian blue lotus--
nymphaea caerulea.
And it's one of the most
treasured flowers in the world.
It grows in a pond.
So it's like a lily
pad type of a thing.
And it's very celebrated
in Greek mythology.
It was mentioned
in "The Odyssey."
If you recall, Odysseus,
his men were being
captured by the lotus-eaters.
And they were being drawn
in, like the sirens,
by the lotus-eaters.
LISA GARR: Yes.
And Lotus Eaters basically
become kind of lazy
and just want to just
do nothing all day.
Live in that moment, and
it's over-- yes, yes, yes.
Yeah, and it's kind
of a message about life
in "The Odyssey" about
the lotus-eaters,
because the lotus petals,
if you eat those petals,
they are a little
bit psychoactive.
They kind of make you lazy and
you wanna really do anything.
LISA GARR: Really?
You just wanna
kind of hang out.
Well, I mean,
look at the flower.
You could just
gaze at it forever.
You just took this picture?
This looks like a calendar.
That's an iPhone picture.
That's amazing.
It really looks like that.
And this is an
exquisite variety that
was at my friend's place who
had the peanut butter fruit.
And everything he has
is very, very special.
So as soon as I saw he had
lotuses, I was taking pictures.
Peanut butter fruit--
that still blows my mind.
All right.
So this is interesting.
DAVID WOLFE: Nastus elatus--
LISA GARR: Of course it is.
DAVID WOLFE: The edible bamboo.
And this is my number
one pick for strong bones
and teeth for children,
and for adults, as well.
LISA GARR: You can eat that?
You can actually eat that.
And we will take that
piece right there
and just dice it up and
throw it into a salad,
and it's quite good.
LISA GARR: Really?
Yeah.
Now, is that peeled at all,
that what we're looking at?
Yeah.
So I've just peeled
off the end there
so you can see what the
inner meat looks like,
for lack of a better term.
And then you just
bite into that.
It's soft and chewy.
It's essentially similar to
heart of palm, which I also
recommend for bones and teeth.
LISA GARR: Oh, OK.
All palm trees are basically
similar to bamboo, which
is basically similar to grass.
So the core of palm
trees, the core of bamboo,
and the core of grasses,
if you can get to them,
are typically edible.
And they're rich in silica, so
they have incredible ability
not only to build
bones and teeth,
but also nails, hair, skin.
Interesting.
-So they're beauty foods.
-Ah.
So you can chew on it, put
it in salads, whatever,
and you get that natural silica.
DAVID WOLFE: That's right.
And it's a brilliant
salad vegetable.
In fact, oftentimes,
when I'm in Australia,
we'll just make salads
out of nastus elatus,
the edible bamboo.
It's the basis.
How fun.
DAVID WOLFE: It's amazing.
OK, these are beautiful.
What are these we're
looking at here?
DAVID WOLFE: OK.
So I love this about
Instagram, being
able to share these images.
These are my cacao trees in
Hawaii, or chocolate trees.
So chocolate is made out
of a nut called cacao.
These are nut trees.
This is the most celebrated
nut in the world,
but nobody knows
it's even a nut.
It's chocolate.
It's cacao, or cocoa.
And this is the fruit
that it comes from.
You can see it's shaped kind
of like Nerf footballs there.
LISA CARR: Are they big?
They will become big.
They'll become the size
of a Nerf football.
These are smaller.
They're just growing
into their maturity.
And those trees, actually,
are just coming to that point
where we've gone from
producing 10 fruits to 20.
Now, it's 100.
In your farm in Kawaii?
Yeah, just on a single tree.
-Oh my goodness.
-Right.
So that means--
let's say there's
30 cacao beans in each one.
We're looking at, suddenly,
3,000 cacao beans on a tree.
That's a lot.
LISA CARR: Oh my goodness.
Yeah.
And you have hundreds
of these trees?
We have a couple hundred trees.
And if you look very closely
at those images there,
you can see that there's
this green thing that's kind
of growing around the trunk.
And that's vanilla.
-You combine them?
-Yeah.
That's one of the
things we've innovated
for permaculture farms
around the world--
mixing the cacao
with the vanilla
together, growing them together.
And it's one of these things--
it was a flash that came
on to me about five years ago.
I had a number of great vanilla
vines that were in my nursery,
and thought, what am I
going to do with these?
I've gotta go trellis
them on something.
I'm not into trellising.
I don't know anything about it.
I thought, you know what?
Why don't I just go
trellis it in a cacao tree?
So I took about four
or five cacao trees
and put the vanillas
in, and it worked.
And it just went.
And it's now become a major
tourist attraction at our farm.
People come to see the
cacao with the vanilla.
And does it change
the taste of the cacao?
Well, they say that it
does, because they say
about chocolate--
chocolate acquires
the flavors of the plants and
trees that it grows next to.
LISA CARR: Oh, around it.
Really?
Yeah.
And so we're thinking--
So we have the cacao powder.
This is what-- I
mean, you really
got pretty much like a little
mocha latte right there
[INAUDIBLE].
Yeah.
It's kind of like our vanilla
chocolate mocha thing going on.
I think they call it a zebra.
And right here is the
product of those cacao beans.
That's cacao powder.
That's raw cacao powder.
And this is one of the great
health food products that's
out there right now--
being able to get
all of the goodies that's in
chocolate with zero sugar.
There's nothing added.
It's just chocolate.
What are some of the
benefits of cacao, I mean,
in its raw form like this?
Cacao is the
number one magnesium
content food in the world.
It's the number one antioxidant
food that people eat as well.
Therefore, just on
those two principles--
because magnesium is the
number one mineral deficiency,
antioxidants are
associated with longevity--
it should probably increase your
lifespan, increase your health.
And actually, that's
been shown-- that people
who eat chocolate live longer.
And in fact, the highest
fraction of chocolate eaters
live the longest.
And of course, we recommend
natural chocolate.
I think it's so fun.
The last time you
were on the show,
you did a whole
blender chef thing
for us, which was so neat.
And you showed us how to make
different hot chocolates,
but out of this and
natural vanilla bean.
DAVID WOLFE: That's right.
And you have here-- this
is a great combination here.
This is kind of
that mocha combo.
This is something that was made
very popular on television,
green coffee bean extract.
This stuff-- this
particular version
of it's high octane fuel.
And you've got to be
a little bit careful.
So this is a teaspoon with
maybe a tablespoon of that.
We could throw it in
a NutriBullet blender.
This is the blender that I
have on TV all over the place.
Just throw a couple
of those in there.
Throw some water in there.
Pop it in.
And you're ready to go.
Just to see how
this thing works--
love this, because
there's no exposed blades.
Watch.
And we just go like that.
Boom.
And it's on and then
it's off, just like that.
And there's your
instant mocha whatever.
DAVID WOLFE: Or whatever, yeah.
And you can do all kinds
of amazing things in there.
I like to put a lot of berries
in there-- raspberry coconut,
coconut water-- and then take
something that's interesting
here, maybe one of my super
herb formula combinations,
like this 24 mushroom blend,
and then pop that in there.
So I'm not doing just like
raspberry and coconut water
or blueberry and coconut water
or banana, coconut water,
and raspberry.
I'm actually getting
very interesting, unique
nutrients, immunological
nutrients, from the mushrooms.
Yeah.
Let's talk about these.
These are in glass jars, right?
Yeah, this is Myron glass.
Overall, these here
are so amazing.
This company that
makes Myron glass,
I finally met with the owners.
They wanted to meet with me,
because I've been promoting it
for all these years
and I never met
the people who run the company.
And we've become very good
friends, like best friends.
Nice.
And they're in Europe.
They're based in Holland.
And they produce the most
incredible glass in the world.
You can see it's
like a black glass.
Yeah, you can't--
But if you get it
up into the light--
-I was just gonna do that.
-You can catch a violet hue.
Oh, it's purple.
Yeah.
DAVID WOLFE: Yeah.
And we call it the violet glass.
And this is going back
to the 1800s as to why
this glass was developed.
And it preserves foods
that are in it better
than any other type of glass.
And for our high end
products, what we like to do
is put them into
the Myron glass,
because it just adds
a touch of quality.
This says freeze
dried mycelium.
So this is actually 24
different mushrooms from--
DAVID WOLFE: Mixed together.
Mixed together.
DAVID WOLFE: Mixed
together, yeah.
LISA CARR: And the healing
properties of this is?
This is immunological.
It's joint protective.
It's nervous system supporting.
What we know about the mycelium
of mushrooms-- and these
are all tree
mushrooms, by the way.
So the medicinal mushrooms
are, for the most part,
with a few exceptions,
tree mushrooms.
LISA CARR: Oh, really?
They're not in the ground?
Yeah.
So that's interesting
right there.
I thought that's a very
important point to bring out
to folks is hey, mushrooms
that grew out of trees are,
for the most part, medicinal.
And we should know that, because
if we cut all our trees down,
we're also getting rid of
all our medicinal compounds.
LISA CARR: All those
old growth trees.
Yeah.
LISA CARR: Absolutely.
I mean, mycelium,
it's underneath.
We did a whole show with Paul
Stamets, as you recommended.
DAVID WOLFE: Yeah.
It's in the earth.
And it's miles and miles below.
DAVID WOLFE: Yeah.
-So it grows up and--
A lot of times, into
dead trees, but sometimes,
in living trees.
For example, chaga, which
is this mushroom right here,
grows in a living tree.
And so it has a
very unique property
that it lives symbiotically
with a living tree.
Then what we found out,
especially over the last five
years-- this led me to write
a book on the subject--
is it's actually protecting
the immune system of the tree.
So they live together
symbiotically.
And they protect each
other, kind of like us
with our friendly bacteria.
Right?
We live symbiotically together.
-Interesting.
Now, why do you have chaga
separated from the 24 blend?
Because that's
what folks demand.
LISA CARR: Oh, OK.
I see.
-Yeah.
And one of the reasons why
we do these kinds of products
is because in the old days,
the only kinds of products
you could get in a health
food store were capsulated.
-Right.
-And then our crew came around.
We said, hey, we just want
to take a few berries,
throw it in here
with some coconut
water or tea or something
and just throw a powder.
We don't want to
open up capsules.
Right.
Let's just give
them the bulk powder
and give them a
much better deal.
You're going to save
about five times
the price just on a bulk
powder, because you don't
have to capsulate
it, so you just
don't need all that technology.
And that's where we
are now, is people
are like, hey, I want the bulk.
I want the whole powder.
So why do you think
they grow on dead trees?
Do you know?
DAVID WOLFE: They're a recycler.
Yeah, actually, I do know.
And this is a very
interesting thing to me.
And that is the medicinal
mushrooms are tree mushrooms,
and they recycle wood.
And so their role
in the ecosystem
is in a karma neutral place.
They're allies to life,
but when the tree dies,
they step in and recycle it and
make that food for more trees.
They eat the wood.
DAVID WOLFE: They eat the wood.
-Fascinating.
And then they get to do their
thing of producing spores,
but the wood rots.
LISA CARR: It decomposes.
And then it decomposes.
And then that's food
for the next layer
of the forest to come up.
And the way we talk about
that is that these mushrooms
are allies to life.
For example, 24 mushroom
blend right here--
could you feed that your dog?
Yes, you could.
In nature, your dog's never
to be able to get that.
It's not gonna be able to eat
any of these kind of mushrooms.
But how could that be a medicine
for all mammals and reptiles
and even fish and birds, which
is what the research indicates?
And it's because
they're allies to life.
Because it's something
that we all need.
And it supports
health, because it
gets into the depth and
understanding of what's
going on here on the planet.
We have allies that are
here on the planet with us.
And once we know
them and understand
their behavior and their
personality, they can help us.
And that's how I talk about
the medicinal mushrooms.
Are people that might
be allergic to mushrooms,
would they ever have an
allergy to something like this?
They can.
Yeah.
If you have a mushroom
allergy, you could be allergic
to medicinal mushrooms.
It's possible.
So they're still
funguses, but they're,
in a way, good funguses,
just like good bacteria
is to the gut.
DAVID WOLFE: Exactly.
-I'm getting it.
DAVID WOLFE: Yes, good
bacteria versus bad bacteria.
I got it.
DAVID WOLFE: Exactly.
LISA CARR: OK.
So now, back to our
beautiful cacao tree
that you're looking at here.
So the cacao we saw
earlier, the buds
coming off of the tree that are
going to grow into bigger ones.
DAVID WOLFE: Yeah.
LISA CARR: This is the
inside of it, right?
DAVID WOLFE: This is the inside.
So what we did here is
we had a fully ripe pod.
So those things
grow and they become
a pod, like a Nerf football.
And then we broke that pod open.
And I got those fresh
beans, those fresh nuts.
It's actually a nut.
LISA CARR: Inside?
DAVID WOLFE: Chocolate is the
most widely eaten in the world
that nobody actually eats.
LISA CARR: Yeah.
DAVID WOLFE: Think
about that for a second.
Imagine if, all the
years of your life,
you always had almond powder,
you had almond butter,
you had almond oil.
One day, I came along and
said, here's an almond.
LISA CARR: Here's the almond.
Right.
That's what this is.
LISA CARR: Right.
So what we did here is
we took the cacao bean out
and we dehydrated them.
so they get that crunch,
that crispness.
And lo and behold, once
you break them open,
you see their original and real
color, which is royal purple.
LISA CARR: Really?
-Isn't that amazing?
When they dry,
they become brown?
When they sprout,
they turn brown.
Sometimes, some
cacao varieties are
a little bit whitish, purplish.
Some are rich purple like this.
Some are purple-brown.
And some are purple.
But generally, the tendency
is once they start sprouting,
then they go to brown.
And that's the chocolate color
that we're all familiar with.
But if you look at that
closely, if you look at it,
you go, wait, there's a
little bit of purple in there.
You can see it.
-Yeah, you could.
There's a little bit of a hue.
Now, what about critters
and squirrels and birds?
Do they just love these trees?
Birds love chocolate trees.
And there's an incredible
research project
that was done on
the amount of birds
that are attracted into areas
where cacao trees are planted.
So there's something very
interesting going on that we
don't really understand.
But there's at least 90 to even
160 species of birds that will
come into cacao plantings
and to cacao orchards that
normally don't hang out there.
Now, that's exactly what
you want for these trees,
because the bird poop
is super phosphate.
It's the best
fertilizer you got.
So if these birds are coming
into the cacao orchards--
maybe they like the cacao fruit.
A lot of them do.
Like, toucans love cacao.
And if they come in
there and they eat that
and then they poop
there, then that's
the fertilizer for
these nut trees,
which need a lot of nutrition.
-Interesting.
Yeah.
But do they just kind
of take the trees apart?
Or what do you do about that?
Well, see, in Hawaii,
we deal with chickens.
So I've got chickens roosting
in my cacao trees, which is not
the best thing ever most of the
time, because they pick around.
They tear up your garden a lot.
If you plant lettuce,
they tear it up.
Yeah?
I'm trying to get
the chickens out.
But chickens love cacao trees.
They love roosting in them.
So they'll sleep in them.
LISA CARR: Oh, in the tree?
In the tree.
LISA CARR: How cute.
-Yeah, it's cool.
And then they kind of
work as a natural deterrent
from the birds?
You mean the chickens?
LISA CARR: Yeah, do they?
Well, other birds--
in Hawaii, we
don't have the
diversity of birds
that you'd have in,
for example, Ecuador.
These studies that I'm
talking about-- 90 to 160
different birds coming
into those areas--
are in like Venezuela, Ecuador.
Those are places
like Peru, where
there's a tremendous
biodiversity of birds.
But all the birds
that exist in Hawaii,
they do come to the cacao trees.
They love it.
LISA CARR: Interesting.
Yeah.
LISA CARR: All right.
All right.
And these are the leaves.
This is beautiful.
DAVID WOLFE: Yes.
If I was walking
along a forest and I
saw these beautiful
leaves, I would know
there's something in there.
DAVID WOLFE: Isn't
that brilliant?
LISA CARR: It's so
neat and so pretty.
DAVID WOLFE: And again,
that's just an iPhone picture.
This gives you an idea of
what the cacao's all about.
You can see all the
colors of cacao there.
You can see the green and
the purples and the reds.
But even almost the
dark browns are there.
And one of the things
that we see here--
and this particular
tree, I do want
to mention a little bit about.
It just showed something
to me when it was a baby,
when it was about that big.
There's two trees that I
put right next to the house,
to our ranch house.
And when they were babies,
this big, they showed to me
something that was
like, wow, I'm going
to keep an eye on that one.
And this one just had
this brilliance to it.
It just had this magic.
And it went through
a major growth spurt
last time I was here.
So I snapped this picture,
because that's the new growth.
That's what you're seeing there,
is those different colors.
That's the new leaves.
And eventually,
they'll turn green.
So cute-- you personify these
like they're little children.
DAVID WOLFE: Yeah.
Right.
If you take care of
like that, then they're
going to take on that
personality, that character,
that's really going to give
us the best quality chocolate.
And that's ultimately
what I'm about,
is hey, how do we make this
incredible, most well-loved
food in the world even better?
Is that possible?
So you harvest these,
and you take the food out
and you dry it, and
grind it up and dry it?
Is that how it
gets to this stage?
DAVID WOLFE: That's right.
Well, this is pressed.
So the oil's been squished out.
And the cacao butter
is then over here.
We don't have any
cacao butter here.
But cacao butter is a
really special, amazing oil.
And we all know how incredible
coconut oil is at this point.
Most of your fans are tuned
into the coconut oil revolution.
LISA CARR: Yes, yes, yes.
But the cacao butter
revolution is even a bigger one,
because it's cocoa
butter, the real-- it's
like what was in
Coppertone lotion way,
way back in the old days.
LISA CARR: It's cocoa butter.
-Yeah.
It's the real-- so
it has a little bit
of sun tan properties.
LISA CARR: Golden.
Yeah.
And it has the smell.
And it's really the
best thing ever.
LISA CARR: Oh, it
sounds wonderful.
-Yeah.
-It sounds tropical.
All right.
So this is a beautiful picture
of-- what is this picture?
DAVID WOLFE: This
is dragon fruit.
Now, I had an amazing
woman staying with me
and she's been helping we
with the design of our farm
and with work on
the farm for years.
And she came up one
night and she said,
the dragon fruits are flowering.
And this is the first time
they've ever flowered.
And I've had this tree, or
this-- it's not really a tree.
It's a vine.
It's a cactus that's a vine.
LISA CARR: OK.
DAVID WOLFE: So I got it
in the right place finally.
But years, it
didn't do anything.
Finally, it flowered,
and flowers at night.
So it's pollinated by moths.
It's pollinated not by
bees, but by other critters.
LISA CARR: Interesting.
DAVID WOLFE: And then it
will close in the day.
And so we're going
to have fruits.
LISA CARR: Does it
open to the moon?
DAVID WOLFE: Yeah,
it opens the moon.
It responds to the moon.
Yeah.
LISA CARR: Wow, interesting.
DAVID WOLFE: Yeah.
LISA CARR: Wow,
that's so beautiful.
So you actually got a picture
of it flowering at night.
DAVID WOLFE: So I came in
there at night with my iPhone
with a flash, got the pictures.
LISA CARR: That's so fun.
-Isn't that great?
LISA CARR: I know.
You have such a fun life.
This is really cool.
What is this?
DAVID WOLFE: OK.
This one shocks people.
What you see here
is a cashew fruit.
That's where cashews come from.
LISA CARR: A cashew
nut is a fruit?
DAVID WOLFE: It's a fruit,
but the nut is so bizarre.
It sticks out of the bottom.
So you can see in that
lower quadrant there, I'm
kind of turning the
thing upside down
and I'm showing you
that nut sticking out
of the bottom, which
has a shell around it.
And if you crack that, the
cashew nut is on the inside.
And you only get
one nut per fruit.
That's why cashews
are more expensive.
It's very labor intensive.
LISA CARR: And you never
see them in this form.
DAVID WOLFE: Never.
You might, if you're
in Cuba maybe.
So maybe Costa Rica, maybe in a
market for one day, they last.
But those fruits go
bad very quickly.
So it's basically, you pick it.
It's got one day on
the market shelf.
And then if it doesn't happen,
if somebody doesn't buy it,
you just crack the nuts
and use it for the nut.
But you don't eat the fruit.
So is the nut, in its
raw form, very, very rich?
Yeah, it's very rich.
And it's very oily
and juicy, actually.
The nut hardens.
And nuts in general harden,
whether it's cacao or macadamia
nut or pecans or
walnuts-- they are
harden once you break them out.
And then they start to dry out.
And once they dry out,
they have that crunch
that we're all familiar with.
-Right.
Right.
Let's see here.
What is this?
DAVID WOLFE: This is fun.
Now, being a fruit explorer and
researcher and a connaisseur
of exotic fruits from
around the world,
eventually, you come
head to head with durian.
Durian is that fabled
fruit that all raw foodists
are talking about.
It's that fabled fruit from
Southeast Asia that smells.
It's banned on
trains in Singapore.
It's a fruit that's
got a big spiky
exterior, but an
absolutely intense smell.
It smells like a
sulfur-- you know
how sulfur sometimes
comes out of your oven
if you have an old gas oven?
And they designed
it so that they'd
give a smell to the sulfur
so you could-- or to the gas?
Or if you're by
sulfur hot springs.
Sulfur hot springs
is like that too.
That's how durian smells.
And it's something you
either love it or hate it.
It's a rotten egg thing.
And in this
particular case, I was
on the big island of Hawaii.
And a friend of mine, who I
hadn't seen in many years,
she called me up.
She said, my durians are
fruiting, or they're flowering.
And I want you to come check it
out and see if you can help me.
And so what I did is
I went and I trimmed
out all the small flowers.
I trimmed out
everything so that what
had been actually
pollinated is going
to carry fruit right to term.
LISA CARR: Oh my gosh.
-Yeah.
So I went in just
kind of helped it
along, because this is the first
year of her durians flowering.
So I went in there and kind of
trimmed out about 65% maybe 70%
of the flowers, and then let
the ones that had already
been pollinated have
a little bit of room
so that they're going to make
it all the way to a full fruit.
So that more of the nutrition
goes to those particular--
DAVID WOLFE: Exactly.
Yes.
I've learned from
you over the years.
DAVID WOLFE: Yeah,
you're getting it.
Yeah.
-Over the years-- all right.
And this, this is really neat.
DAVID WOLFE: This is nutmeg.
LISA CARR: Nutmeg.
DAVID WOLFE: Nutmeg, yeah.
And in the holidays, we
all know about nutmeg.
You can see right there, it
looks like heart and lungs.
It has a very sensual
appearance, as well.
LISA CARR: Interesting.
DAVID WOLFE: And
one of things you
see there is that red that's
around a black nut underneath.
The red is the mace.
We've heard of nutmeg mace.
And nutmeg mace has
the same qualities
as the nutmeg nut itself.
It has a slightly
higher vibration.
It's a little bit fruitier.
It's a little bit brighter.
So if I'm going to really
make a special nutmeg drink,
like a special eggnog
that has no egg in it,
then I'm going to
use mace, right?
It's gonna have a
fruitier, brighter flavor.
But what you could do is
you could take the mace--
or let's say you use up all the
mace and get the red stuff off.
Then you've got
a nut underneath.
I crack that nut open, and there
you have your normal nutmeg
that we're used to that
we'd buy in a store,
like a whole nutmeg.
-They're brownish.
Yeah, the brownish thing.
It's kind of spotted.
And when you grate it,
you can see those spots.
And those grated pieces
would go into your eggnog
or whatever kind of pie
you're making or whatever.
I put it into green
tea, which I love.
When I make a little green
tea coconut milk latte,
I put the nutmeg in there.
I love it.
It's so good.
I'm a big fan of nutmeg.
And you've got to be
careful with nutmeg.
You can overdose.
That medicine-toxin
barrier is very low.
And so there's a certain
amount you can use.
Normally, people just
grate a little bit, put it
in their drinks, no big deal.
LISA CARR: Yeah.
But if you actually did
half a nutmeg in one drink,
that could be too much.
LISA CARR: Really?
Yeah.
So over medicinal, meaning?
It's over medicinal.
It's little bit psychoactive.
Some people get a liver
toxic reaction to it.
Interesting.
Yeah, so it's kind of a
barrier-- not too much.
We've heard a lot
about cinnamon lately.
DAVID WOLFE: Yeah.
-It's been in the news.
DAVID WOLFE: I like cinnamon.
I'm a big fan.
LISA CARR: We don't have
any pictures of cinnamon.
But what are some of
the medicinal properties
of cinnamon?
And in what form, though?
When we see it in the
store in the little jars
with the sticks, are those
even worth it anymore?
Do they have any properties
of healing in them anymore?
You've got to get
the right cinnamon.
There's actually two types of
cinnamon being sold in stores.
LISA CARR: OK.
Most of it is the
wrong type of cinnamon.
It's in the right genus,
but it's the wrong species.
So you just need
to do a little--
LISA CARR: How'd you know?
Bit of internet research.
You've got to go to a website
or you've got to go to a person
like a store or shop that
differentiates it and says,
this is the real
original cinnamon.
The real original cinnamon
has a richer flavor.
It's got a little
bit more bite to it.
It has a thicker bark, because
cinnamon is a tree bark.
OK.
And cinnamon, when they
finally analyzed what's in it--
it's super high in chromium,
like cacao is, which means
it's blood sugar regulating.
It's anti-diabetic.
Oh.
And that's why
it's recommended--
LISA CARR: That's why.
As a longevity substance.
So if you have a tendency in
your family towards diabetes,
then it's kind of
the natural thing
you would want to have to kind
of keep that tendency at bay.
So can you have children
maybe chew on cinnamon
sticks instead of have
ridiculous sugar cravings.
Totally.
Yeah.
LISA CARR: So that's a
great way to kind of--
It's a great way to go.
Adjust the sugar
cravings in kids.
OK.
These are beautiful.
This is a plum, a wild
plum from the Northern
Territory of Australia.
It's called the kakadu plum.
And it turns out it's
the highest vitamin C
content food in the world.
This is?
DAVID WOLFE: This is it.
This is it right here.
And it has a stone in it.
It's really like a plum, like
a plum you'd buy in a store,
except it has a much
thinner level of flesh.
And it has almost like a
gelatinous similar to berries
type of consistency.
You kind of chew through
it, and you're like, oh,
that's kind of like a
jell-o kind of feeling,
like a gelatinous
type of feeling.
And aboriginal people used to
just put a bunch in their mouth
and just chew it and
chew it and chew it.
And not only is it
super high in vitamin C,
but it's a very powerful
hydration agent.
And it's digestively
friendly, as all
the berries are and all these
high-pectin type of fruits are.
This gelatinous quality, we
call a demulcent quality.
And that demulcent quality is
very friendly to digestion.
So it's very soft.
So if you've had a history of
Celiac's disease or Chrone's
or autoimmune conditions
with the digestive track
or we just get our
diverticulitis or something
like that, then we
want to do things
that are not too
fibrous-- not like kale,
that can be too much.
Right.
We've got to do things that
are soft and gelatinous, like
the kakadu plum or
plums in general
or berries or raspberries
or marshmallow
root tea, one of my favorites.
LISA CARR: Right.
Right.
I remember that.
Slippery elm bark is like
that, has that quality.
LISA CARR: Digestive aids.
-Digestive aids.
Chia seed's like that.
Chia seeds there.
Ch-ch-ch chia.
And then those turn into a
thick kind of a gelatinous--
That's it.
That's that demulcent quality
that we're looking for.
See, when you take chia seeds
and you soak them in water,
you're going to get that
jelling quality to come out.
And if you consume that as
a pudding, for example--
I like to put berries
in there, again,
for that demulcent quality.
I like to put honey in
there, because honey is
pretty friendly to digestion.
-Nice.
And then I like to put
slippery elm in there.
If I can get marshmallow root
powder, I'll put that in there.
All of a sudden, I've
got a digestive tonic
that's also very nourishing--
complete protein.
LISA CARR: Do you
eat it like oatmeal?
Yeah.
It's a breakfast.
And then what happens for me,
though, is it's breakfast,
then it's lunch,
then it's dinner.
LISA CARR: Yes.
Yes.
I just stay with it.
-Because it's so good.
-It's so good.
How long do you soak
the seeds before they--
Eight minutes,
eight to 10 minutes.
Is it warm water?
Or does it matter?
Warm water's fine.
But I like-- it depends.
If you really like a hot
oatmeal in the morning,
switch from oats, which
are very mucous-driving and
mucous-forming, and
you switch to chia,
and you can get a similar
consistency, a lot lighter.
It's a lot lighter.
-Interesting.
It feels lighter.
And then you can maybe
put a few raw nuts in there
and some berries? or no?
DAVID WOLFE: Yeah.
You can put nuts and
berries in There.
Yes, I do that.
I did-- what'd I
do the other day?
LISA CARR: It sounds so good
with some honey right now,
just that--
-Oh, doesn't that sound great?
LISA CARR: It
sounds so good, yes.
I brought some honey for you.
I got some.
LISA CARR: Oh, some [INAUDIBLE].
-Yeah.
-OK.
What else do we
have here in your--
This is one of our top
selling products right here.
This is a very interesting
research project
that I was involved
in for years to try
to mix a powder into water and
make it taste good with nothing
else.
That's it.
Just powder into water, and
make it work, where people go,
that's good.
I want that.
And that became
a product we call
Immortal Machine,
which is actually
our number one selling product.
-Now, what is in it?
Beautiful drink mix.
And what it is it's
cacao, it's shilajit,
it's leukoma, it's maca.
We have a few interesting
ingredients in there
like white kidney bean extract.
It's mucuna.
It's a combination of superfoods
and super herbs together.
And that's the
combination that I'm
always telling people about.
One day, that just click in.
LISA CARR: Super
foods and super hers.
Superfoods and super herbs
together-- that magical combo.
So now, the only thing green
I'm seeing here is your shirt.
I noticed that you used to
be a full green food addict.
Why no greens?
Well, I'm assuming that folks
are doing their green juices.
This is a different direction,
where the market evolved.
And so I just rolled with that.
You can put these
in your green juices?
Sure.
You can put it in
your green juices.
I was on a plane flight from
Amsterdam to Los Angeles,
about a 13-hour flight.
It's a pretty intense flight.
LISA CARR: Yeah.
And about six hours into it,
I hadn't drank water in days.
I was really
dehydrated and I was
in the middle of that flight.
And I had had a fresh
organic orange juice
at Schiphol Airport before
getting on the flight.
LISA CARR: OK.
And I'm thinking,
maybe possibly they
would have fresh orange
juice on this flight.
It's KLM Airlines-- maybe.
Who knows?
LISA CARR: Right.
So I get up.
I'm wandering the
cabin deliriously.
It's a 747.
There was 540 people on board.
I'm wandering around.
And the curtains open and I look
into the flight attendant area,
and I see an orange juice.
And I thought, maybe.
So I stick my head in there.
And I say to the flight
attendant, I say,
that wouldn't happen to be
like a fresh orange juice
or anything, would it?
And the guy goes, you're
David Wolfe, aren't you?
LISA CARR: Oh, no way.
He recognized me.
So I'm like, oh, man.
So all of the sudden, he busts
out this liter and a half
of superfood super herb drink.
It was an impossible situation.
Oh, my god.
You are lucky.
He says, do you want some?
-Are you kidding?
-Do you want some?
I'm like, yes, I do.
We sit back there in the flight
attendant little cabin area.
And we're drinking
this amazing smoothie,
having the best time ever.
But he had it-- I would
have that in coconut water.
He had it in kale juice.
LISA CARR: OK.
So it wasn't exactly-- it was
kind of a mess on that point.
Are you kidding?
You got so lucky there.
It was so-- I was
like, I'll take it.
Yes, kale juice.
I'll take it.
Yes.
Only flight attendants can get
that type of stuff on a plane,
though, because
you couldn't carry
that through security, sadly.
It was totally
impossible, what happened.
And we're just
smiling, laughing.
11 hours into the flight-- I had
been back to my seat by then.
I'd probably watched "Rocky
VI" about three or four times
by that point.
So I'm sitting in my seat.
And all of a sudden, somebody
comes over, and I look up,
and it's him.
And he pulls down the tray.
And he puts a napkin down.
And he puts a cup down.
And he has more.
He had another bottle.
And he's serving me at my
table, just to do that.
You're just the luckiest
guy on the planet.
It was incredible.
It was really a special moment.
You make people feel
good about themselves
and feel good inside,
which is important.
That's a very important
part of healing, by the way.
The doomsday report idea
is a terrible idea--
this whole thing of like
well, you went to the doctor
and he said, you have
six weeks to live.
LISA CARR: Yes.
-That is the worst thing ever.
You always want to be
positive and hope-giving
force in the world, because
the other idea is terrible.
It's like, let's work with hope.
Well, I mean, when you a
sustainable type of environment
inside your body, then
the right neurochemicals
produce, then the
happy hormones produce,
and then you feel good.
So those negative thoughts
start to quiet down
and you're more attracted to
the positive things in life.
So I think that's one
of the main reasons
for nutritional supplementation.
DAVID WOLFE: Yes.
It's because it
makes you feel better.
Happy food.
The happy food group.
Happy food, happy
thoughts, right.
So OK.
What do you take?
Because everybody wants to know?
-What I'm doing.
On your comments on
Instagram it all says,
I want what he's having.
So what is your-- you
brought your medicine bag.
DAVID WOLFE: Yeah, I
brought my medicine bag.
We should probably get that out.
LISA CARR: Oh, and we haven't
talked about this fun thing
yet.
-OK.
Well, this is orgonite.
And these are flakes
of metal and crystals
all crushed to a fine powder.
I think there's 30, maybe
31, different crystals
and metals in here, like
copper flakes, gold flakes,
silver flakes.
-Oh, how pretty.
And then layers and layers
and layers of crushed crystals
and moldavite and all this
kind of stuff, and then
a flower of life image on top.
And I use this in my car.
I'll sit on this.
It looks very much
like the Gaiam flower.
-It is like that, absolutely.
-Yeah, it is.
You can see the Gaiam
flower right in here.
Right there.
And it's based on that
flower of life symbology.
And one of the things that
we do with this is I'll
put my supplements on it.
As long as I'm going to
have them sitting there,
this thing emits
an energy field.
And it's something
you can detect.
Like when I was driving
across the desert--
I got this from a friend
of mine in Arizona--
drove across the desert
all the way back to LA.
It's about a 10 hour drive.
And I sat on this thing,
and I had the energy for 10
hours, got all the way back.
-You're kidding?
Yeah.
And who knows?
it's orgonite.
It was developed by Wilhelm
Reich, who was a very, very
famous researcher into
alternative energy
systems back in the '50s.
And now, we've gotten to
this level with the orgonite.
So I'll have this in my car--
It's quite large.
Sometimes, I'll sit on it.
Yeah, and it's quite heavy.
-It is heavy.
Yeah.
And what is it encased in?
It's encased in a
silicone-- it's silicone.
Isn't that pretty?
Yeah.
It's a resin.
That is gorgeous.
I mean, it sparkles.
And that's all
natural materials?
Those are all natural
materials, yes.
That is really beautiful.
And it is attracts, according
to Wilhelm Reich, good energy,
positive energies
that are naturally
present in the environment.
It's just a
concentrator of those.
That is beautiful.
That's really pretty.
DAVID WOLFE: Isn't
that brilliant?
Yeah, it's gorgeous.
So this emits an
energy-- I'm sure you
can even get the energy in the
resonance of the camera image
too.
That's just the way it works.
DAVID WOLFE: Right, yeah.
-Yeah.
DAVID WOLFE: Yeah.
You can feel it.
I just leave it around
just to see what happens.
And people will be
like, what's that?
And they'll just
put stuff on it.
I use it like a plate,
like you'd eat off of.
But I put all my things on it
just to kind of charge them up,
just because it's interesting.
LISA CARR: Don't
leave home without it.
You were taking a
nap on that earlier.
Yeah, I was.
Yeah, that's exactly right.
That's really cool.
Now, let's bring this up here.
What I do oftentimes,
if I'm traveling--
You wanna put it on here?
Yeah, I'll just put
it right on there.
This is my medicine bag.
And people ask me about
this all the time.
This is well-traveled.
Let's see.
This is a well-traveled bag.
This thing has been
around the world with me.
I've had this
thing for 10 years.
It's an old camera
bag that, one day-- I
can't remember exactly what
my original medicine bag was.
I've been through
maybe three of them.
-Yeah.
-One day, that thing went caput.
And I emptied out the camera
equipment and thought,
this thing looks like
it's going to work.
And I've got all
kinds of cool stuff.
I've got wooden spoons.
OK.
That's cool.
Wooden knives.
And you don't get stopped
at security for these.
They never take anything out.
Now, I always pack this in
the main luggage that goes in.
-Oh, OK.
-OK.
So I'm just going
to open this up.
This is exactly how I travel.
So you're going to
see it for reals--
That's so fun.
As we say in LA.
-We've all wanted to know.
-OK.
So I have pictures of my cacao
farm here for inspiration.
And you can see
that right there.
It's a little sticker.
Those are some of the
pictures we just saw.
Uh-huh.
-Yeah.
And then right at the
top, this is something
I've been traveling with.
It was a gift for my birthday--
reishi mushroom spores.
Oh, that's powerful stuff.
Powerful stuff, as Ron
Teeguarden would tell you.
This is even more powerful than
the reishi mushroom itself.
And we just blend this
right into drinks.
And this is something we
could put into a NutriBlast
with a little bit of cacao
and berries and coconut water.
And we're ready
to rock and roll.
That's it.
So this is how-- you just
start mixing things on the road.
You go and you just
find water or whatever
and you just mix it up.
DAVID WOLFE: And just mix it up.
If I'm in Hawaii
or in Indonesia,
I've got access to
incredible coconuts.
I'm popping coconut water
into the NutriBullet.
I'm popping in there berries.
I'm popping in
there coconut meat.
This kind of stuff.
Doesn't that sound like a
better idea than fast food?
Yeah.
It's like--
Yeah, your own fast food.
Yeah.
This is the fastest food ever.
OK.
So I've got that.
So we'll put that over here.
OK.
Now, over here, this was a
gift that was given to me.
This is honey.
You can see how it's sealed in.
And it's signed by my
friends who raise these bees.
This is from their CoSM
Farm-- Alex and Allyson Grey,
who are very well known
for their visionary art.
And they gave that to me
as a birthday present.
Yes.
Isn't that brilliant?
Alex Grey-- oh, very nice.
Wow.
I was just with
them at their farm.
Nice.
And that's their first
batch of honey they ever got.
That's so beautiful.
OK.
And I travel with honey
a lot, because I've
found, being an airplanes,
your throat gets dried out.
You start to get
build up of irritation
because of all the stuff you're
breathing in, the dry air.
Honey just soothes
that over right away.
Anti-inflammatory
properties in honey?
-Yeah, very much so.
-Very much so.
And anti-aging properties.
Honey, to me, is one
of the great foods.
And I'm a believer in
what Rudolf Steiner said.
There's no better food
to add to your diet
than the right amount of
honey, which is different.
Depends on where you
are-- if you're sugar
sensitive, the right amount.
-OK.
-Yeah.
-This is beautiful.
God's nectar.
-OK.
-Now, let's see.
If I go in here, let's
see what else we've got.
OK.
So I'm gonna open up this.
This is wild.
So this is my ormus right here.
This is my ormus gold.
And let's see.
We've got a little
bit right there.
So that's my ormus
gold right there.
People ask me,
how do I use this?
This is how I use it.
-Yeah.
Watch what I do?
This is what I do.
-No way.
-Yeah.
And it just goes right in.
It goes right into your skin.
It's a liquid.
And it just goes right in.
If I put it on my hand,
it'll just disappear.
It'll just rub right in.
What is ormus gold?
It's a mineral?
Well, this is a product
that we've been working with.
It's a mineral.
It's made out of gold.
And it just goes right into you.
So it's just--
LISA CARR: Nice.
It falls into you, because
the molecular size is so small.
Do you wanna try some?
LISA CARR: Yes, I do.
And it's a beauty product.
Yeah, you just can
rub that right in.
Yeah.
It's like water.
It's like water, yeah.
And people say, you're
just selling people water.
But if you take that stuff
and you put it out in the sun,
you'll see that it's definitely
not water, because the stuff
will precipitate out.
It'll turn back
to colloidal gold.
LISA CARR: Oh, that's
so interesting.
yeah.
Now, I do believe doing
this, by the way--
and I do this almost every
day with my ormus gold.
It falls into your brain.
LISA CARR: Really?
The substance is falling
into your brain, yeah.
It goes right through.
And this is something that we've
learned from the molecular size
of the substance.
And people say, how do you
remember all that stuff?
LISA CARR: No way.
-It might be related.
I think it's related.
I do, because I've been
doing this since 2006.
That's how you get the
fabulous hair that you
get, just ormus gold hair.
Ormus gold.
And what else do I have here?
Well, I've got--
OK, let's find this.
This is-- oh, this is fun.
This was a gift for my birthday.
And this is goji berry extract.
LISA CARR: Wow.
And it's delicious
and fun to play with.
And one of my favorite gifts
is to get things like this.
LISA CARR: Yes.
In the old days, it was like,
get a little thing for your car
or get something for your house.
LISA CARR: Right.
But better tools are the
ones that you use on yourself.
Yes.
Because you're the best
machine in the universe.
-Yes.
-OK, so you wanna try this?
-OK.
-On your tongue?
-It's good, yeah.
-Rich, huh?
-Wow.
That packs a wallop.
Woo.
That's great.
Now, you're on a flight.
You're five hours out of Taiwan.
You're on your way to Hawaii.
One of those, boom.
You're like, yep,
everything's good.
How many goji berries
are-- oh, that's so good.
DAVID WOLFE: Yeah,
so check that out.
That is really nice.
DAVID WOLFE: I didn't
make that one myself.
Wolfberry.
DAVID WOLFE: Yep.
I didn't make that one myself,
so I don't know exactly
how they concentrated it.
LISA CARR: You would think--
it's called wolfberry.
Yeah.
It would be the
right thing to take.
You can see how beat
up my whole bag is--
LISA CARR: I love this.
This is a great.
-This thing is beat up here.
-This is the--
This is my iodine
that I travel with.
Oh, you take iodine.
Right now, I'm on
the electrodine.
So I'm almost out.
I'm at the bottom.
But I'm just doing like one
or two or three drops a day.
That's it.
Because of thyroid?
Well, it's because of
the nuclear radiation
and pollution that's in
the northern hemisphere
of the planet.
And it is a concern.
It's a significant concern.
LISA CARR: Especially when
you are in airplanes a lot.
Right.
And there's a lot of chemical
fallout that contains bromides.
And also, there's chlorine
and fluorine in water.
To protect yourself from
those toxic halogens,
I recommend iodine.
This iodine's
actually too strong.
I usually use nascent iodine.
This is the Edgar
Cayce electrodine.
Oh.
OK.
And I was doing this
in like high dosages,
and it was whacking me out,
because it was too strong.
So I had to cut my
dosage down to one
or two or three drops a day.
But you don't have
any thyroid issues.
If you did, would
this be a problem?
Well, it might be good
if your thyroid's low.
It depends on the situation.
When people are taking T3 or T4,
when they're taking a thyroid
supplement or Synthroid
or even Armor,
they're actually taking
an iodine supplement.
The T3 means it's three iodines.
T4 means four iodines.
Oh, it's iodine.
So Synthroid is an
iodine supplement.
-Does it contain iodine in it?
-Yeah.
It contains iodine in it.
-Oh, it does.
Yeah.
So if you're taking T3, for
example, which is Synthroid,
then you're actually
getting three iodines.
-Interesting.
-Yeah.
I did not know that.
OK, that's why.
OK.
DAVID WOLFE: So that's a
cool thing to travel with.
All right.
DAVID WOLFE: And let's see
what else we've got here.
Oh, this is my
favorite right now.
-What's that?
-This is the Hops X Factor.
You can see how beaten
up that thing is.
And this is a super
powerful similar compound
to resveratrol.
And it's probably the most
powerful anti-aging compound
that I know of, for sure.
And we're noticing, actually,
it has many other benefits.
It has been very
heavily researched
in the sciences--
over 200 studies
on this particular product.
And we introduced it
to the human market,
because it had only been
in research circles before.
LISA CARR: Research on?
Research on animals, on people.
They'd done-- for example,
there was a human study
done on isoprostanes
where they were
studying the stress
effect of this product
on people over three weeks.
They found out that
one dose, which
is that right there, a day
for three weeks would lower
isoprostanes-- I think
it was 36%, which
is more than anything else.
Isoprostanes are a
marker of stress.
If your isoprostanes are
elevated, you're in stress.
So it's a way of
helping to fortify
your stress defense shield.
You wanna try it?
Hops.
And is it actual--
DAVID WOLFE: It's an
extract of hops pollen.
So this isn't--
DAVID WOLFE: It's
called xanthohumol.
That's the name of the compound.
But if someone is allergic
to wheat, not a problem?
DAVID WOLFE: Yeah,
there's no gluten in it.
There's-- obviously.
DAVID WOLFE: Yeah,
it's gluten-free.
So yeah.
We're having fun here.
Try to talk.
DAVID WOLFE: Doesn't it
taste a little bit like beer?
Yes.
I hate beer.
There's no alcohol
in it, either.
So this is something I've been
megadosing on since April.
And I've been
noticing-- I'm gonna
do a little dose right here.
How's that treating you?
There's a little
bit of water there.
See, I just do it like this.
LISA CARR: Yes, you do.
Yeah, I'm not a beer fan.
But that's fabulous.
DAVID WOLFE: All right.
Now, we're going to
take the edge off.
We're gonna help her out here.
This is what I've got.
I've got--
LISA CARR: Wow.
-OK.
Over here.
LISA CARR: No, you know what?
That actually--
-Here we go.
OK.
Nope.
This is it.
Goji schizandra-- that'll
takethe the edge right off.
This is Ron's product,
Ron Teeguarden's product.
Yeah.
DAVID WOLFE: That's gonna
take the edge off for you.
Wow.
Mmhm.
You can taste that one
through the camera.
Fantastic.
This stuff is powerful.
Yeah.
No need for coffee here.
I've been traveling with
this stuff for a month.
I have a dent-- like
this is eucommia.
This is one of my favorites.
Let's get an image of that.
We should look at this.
LISA CARR: What is this?
This is one of my
favorites of all time
of all herbs in the whole--
LISA CARR: I'm really
impressed that you
can actually talk right now.
On the whole planet.
You can see I do this
stuff quite a bit, right?
I live on the stuff.
-My tongue is--
Because if I'm on the
go, I don't have time--
there's no fast food.
It's not like I can get to a
health food store in Indonesia.
Right.
I just do a little bit of
this, a little bit of that,
and I'm like, boom.
I get going for the next hour.
Beautiful.
The next two hours.
Eucommia-- this is a tree bark.
It's the most fabled tree
bark in Chinese medicine.
It's considered one of the
top herbs in Chinese medicine.
And it has a tremendous history.
It was one time a
tree that dominated
the earth, like gingko did.
LISA CARR: Really?
And it had become
almost extinct
in the history of the
world and had been
narrowed to one area of China.
And somehow, these great Taoist
immortals had figured out,
my god, there's something
amazing about this tree.
And it's in the bark.
And it's an
alcohol-soluble substance
that seals in your joints
and protects your joints.
It seals in your uterus, for
example, if you're pregnant.
This is the number one
recommended pregnancy herb
in the history of the world.
LISA CARR: Wow.
And what's this called again?
It's called eucomma--
E, U, C, O, M, M, I, A.
And in this form, the way it's
delivered here in an alcohol
tincture is really effective,
because the latexy material
that's in it-- sort of
temperate climate rubber tree--
is alcohol-soluble.
So it just gets
right to the joints.
Now, the way I became super
convinced about this product--
LISA CARR: Wow.
It's dark.
DAVID WOLFE: And you can
just try a little drop.
Just try a little drop-- not
too much, because it's strong.
What happened for me is that--
-Very barky.
DAVID WOLFE: I had busted
up these two knuckles
pretty badly.
And over a period of a couple
months of being on the road,
they weren't well.
I was getting worried
that I'd jam them.
And really, something
was going on.
LISA CARR: Wow.
I came back to LA.
I was thinking, OK,
I gotta dress this.
I got to get some eucommia.
And one day, I did
four droppers full.
LISA CARR: The full thing?
Yeah, I did four
droppers full right here.
LISA CARR: This is for people
that have broken bones.
Yeah, or who have
joint issues, or who
want to seal their uterus
in for a pregnancy.
That's how it's recommended.
And so I did four droppers full.
I'm gonna do one here.
LISA CARR: Oh my god.
Woo.
That is like pretty
much eating a tree trunk.
-Mmhm.
-Yeah.
It's tree bark.
Whoa.
You're like--
It is like-- I feel like
a turtle for a second.
Back to normal now.
LISA CARR: I mean a frog.
I did four droppers full,
and the pain was gone.
And my knuckles had
been there for months.
The whole thing went
away in one day.
And that's how I got into this.
I was like, whoa, I have
arthritis in my family.
I have the tendency
towards that genetically.
LISA CARR: Wow.
And so now, I'm like, boom,
I'm on the preventative program.
LISA CARR: This is so fun.
I mean, gosh, if anything
that we're learning here
is that there is a remedy in
nature for every single ailment
that we could possibly have.
DAVID WOLFE: It's always there.
Yeah.
And nature responds
with what you need.
And we have so much access.
And that's what I'm
really trying to do
is get people to just
access what we can get to.
LISA CARR: Yes.
Just open up to what's there,
because when you're dealing
with the most powerful herbs
in the world, like eucommia,
you're dealing with some--
LISA CARR: That is powerful.
It took that out in one day.
LISA CARR: Wow.
Right?
This is not herb number 333.
It's not herb 1,111.
We don't care what those are.
It's too far down the list.
We wanna get to the top.
This is 5,000 years of history.
-History-- it's time proven.
-Yes.
And it's worked for
generations and generations.
But it's also something that
we don't know about a lot.
Oh, Kyolic.
DAVID WOLFE: Recognize that one?
Kyolic.
-Yeah.
DAVID WOLFE: So this is
the Kyolic vegetarian
formula for garlic extract.
That's an aged garlic extract.
So if I need the power
of garlic-- for example,
a lot of these herbs are really
good against most things.
But flu viruses--
garlic nails it.
Antifungal, antiviral.
Anti-- yeah.
And garlic-- I always
have a bottle this
whenever I'm doing a
retreat especially,
if I'm doing a retreat in
Hawaii or Indonesia or Peru,
because if somebody
gets sick, I can get
them a little bit of iodine.
I can get them a
little bit of garlic.
It's something
they're familiar with.
Throw it in a little bit
of water, they drink that.
Usually within an hour
or two, it's gone.
If it starts to come
back, I do another dose.
And within one day, we
usually nip it in the bud.
Nip the flu right away.
Yeah.
So this is for early symptoms
and so forth of the flu.
You can get it out right away.
DAVID WOLFE: Right away.
Exactly.
Beautiful.
DAVID WOLFE: So I'm gonna
put that back in there.
And then I've got other things.
This is a nettle extract that
a friend of mine made for me.
LISA CARR: Good for what?
It's anti-inflammatory
and it's an anti-histamine.
So it's anti-allergy.
And I have very bad allergies.
-Really?
I have a history of
very bad allergies.
Yeah.
And sometimes, if
my allergies act up,
it's like an
autoimmune condition.
It takes me a while to
calm the whole thing down.
So I need certain things.
Nettle helps to just
bring it back down.
LISA CARR: What about eczema?
DAVID WOLFE: Eczema is like an
autoimmune condition as well.
So what that means is that
when it gets triggered,
it's a hard trick to get
that whole thing calmed down
and bring it back down again.
LISA CARR: Yes.
And there are herbs
that help in that regard.
They're anti-autoimmune,
or dual directional.
Reishi mushroom is like that.
Schizandra berry is like that.
Nettle is like that.
It can help to bring
those overreactions back
into control.
So when the histamine does
not react as well as it should,
or maybe you have low
histamine-- people with low
thyroid usually have low
histamine in the body, which
means it doesn't react
well to scratches,
bites, anything, or eczema.
DAVID WOLFE: Yeah.
So this can actually lower
the histamine response?
Yeah.
Exactly.
LISA CARR: Like, it works
like a natural anti-histamine?
-Yeah, that's right.
-Exactly.
-That is brilliant.
-It's amazing.
Yeah.
It's amazing what
nature can give us.
And this is herbalism, really.
LISA CARR: I can see
why it's so exciting.
Herbalism fosters
ecological literacy.
And you don't have to be a.
Genius you don't need
to know 500 herbs.
You just need to know like five
or 10 that you actually use.
That's it-- for your life.
But few of them
have side effects--
like on the medicines,
where you get a list.
DAVID WOLFE: Right.
Yeah.
All the--
-Death.
Let's look at goji berry.
Not going to cause death.
It has 5,000 years of history.
It's time proven.
It's time tested.
-Yeah.
-Schizandra berry, remember.
We had-- yeah.
It's 5,000 years of history.
I mean, this is my
opinion, is that we're
living in a world
that is getting
more and more fear-based.
There's more and more stress.
There's alerts.
I mean, we're getting them on
our devices from [INAUDIBLE].
DAVID WOLFE: Constant.
Constant.
It's going to get
more and more intense.
And so as we get
communicated to,
our immune system gets shot
at faster and more frequently
throughout the day,
or our fear alerts
are higher during the day.
And there's nothing
balancing that fear out.
So the fear is getting
higher, and there's
nothing that's helping us
really be resilient to that type
of immune response.
So this is nature's solution.
DAVID WOLFE: Right.
This is kind of your
stress defense shield.
That's really what
this stuff is about.
Ah.
I wanted to bring this
in, because this one's
a fun one for me.
This one right here is--
that's like an aphrodisiac.
LISA CARR: Oh.
-That's cistanche.
And in our community
here in Los Angeles,
cistanche has a very specific
personality and quality.
And it's a very
interesting plant.
It's a parasitical plant
that grows off a tree.
And it doesn't have
any chlorophyll in it.
And it grows a very
phallic type of growth.
And then they use that to
make this type of preparation.
And these things work.
That's why I'm bringing it in.
Some people are taking
certain kind of things.
LISA CARR: Yes.
Start with x.
Yeah, and they work.
But what are the side effects?
What are the long
term implications?
LISA CARR: Right.
Right.
This is time tested.
This is thousands
of years of history.
So those are drugs.
And these are--
DAVID WOLFE: Natural.
Natural.
DAVID WOLFE: Yeah.
So this is called--
DAVID WOLFE: Cistanche.
-How do you spell that?
DAVID WOLFE: Long
stalk cistanche.
Oh, it's C, I, S--
DAVID WOLFE: C-I-S-T-A-N-C-H-E.
OK, cistanche.
And people have cistanche
parties, I'm sure?
I'm just making that up.
We're just gonna say it.
Cistanche in your pants--
and then you'll remember it.
Anyway.
So that's that.
You see this is in
his medicine bag.
DAVID WOLFE: It's in there.
OK, for those emergencies.
All right.
And what else do
you got in here?
OK, so what we've got
in here-- now, I've got,
boom, digestive enzymes.
OK, in case you--
Very key thing to have.
If you go-- sometimes,
I eat at a raw food
restaurant and it's kind of
not the right combination
of things.
I'm like, uh-oh.
LISA CARR: Or you don't know
how long the stuff's been there.
Antidote.
And the amount that I'll take
isn't just, like, one or two,
right?
We're told, oh, just
take one or two.
How about this?
I might take that one.
-Uh, yeah.
-Yeah.
That happened to
me the other day.
I was in a movie
theater, and we got
a pizza that was supposed to
be gluten-free, vegan pizza,
brought it into
the movie theater.
And I get a text.
We gave you the wrong pizza.
I'm like-- [GASPS]
I'm completely
allergic to wheat.
And I'm sitting there.
And I'm like, oh, no, because
I wasn't really looking at it.
And so that would
have helped me.
That helps.
That's a really
key thing to have.
Two--
I take these even when I don't
even have food in my stomach.
-Wow.
-Yeah.
So in the morning, a lot of
times, if I'm on the road,
in the morning I'll drink water.
I'll take a bunch of my goodies.
And that's it.
I don't even have any
calories-- no food.
And I really like that.
So when you take
digestive enzymes,
if you have a strong stomach--
some people have a very
sensitive stomach, can't
take digestive enzymes
on an empty stomach.
Some people can.
I can.
I'll take eight, 10
on an empty stomach,
and it absorbs in
your bloodstream
and just scours everything
like Little Miss Pacman.
LISA CARR: Interesting.
Yeah, cleans things out.
So are those papaya, pineapple?
Are there any specific-- what
kind of enzymes are those?
There's all kinds.
This one-- OK.
So we've got amylase protease.
These are blends.
The protease has five
different types of protease.
And imagine with
the amylase, they're
saying it's a blend here.
It's probably two
or three amlyase.
So that's
sugar-splitting enzymes
and protein-splitting enzymes.
Glucoamylase-- there's another
sugar-splitting enzyme.
There's also invert
in here, which is
another sugar-splitting enzyme.
Speaking of, you mentioned
something there-- protein.
Yeah.
Where do you get
your protein source?
Superfoods.
Superfoods-- like this is a
great protein source right
here, just the reishi spore.
-Does it have protein in it?
-Yeah.
It has protein in it.
Bee pollen is an excellent
source of protein.
I get a lot of protein from
nuts and seeds as well.
I get protein from
chlorella and spirulina
and blue green algaes.
LISA CARR: What about amino
acid building proteins?
-Hempseed.
OK.
Hempseed's.
Great I like, also, sprouts.
Sprouts have good
free form amino acid.
So that's good for the liver.
It's very bio
available to the liver.
And then you get all those amino
acids in their original forms.
So your body can
go, OK, we're going
to need that one, that one--
The building blocks.
And these three here-- and then
puts it all together for you.
-Oh, isn't that interesting?
-Yeah.
That's fascinating.
I think with
vegetarianism, where
we are more in the conversation
is, yeah, you need protein,
but it's not that big a deal.
What you really
need, though, is you
need to get those right oils.
Like you see here,
this is my algae oil.
Oh.
So this is where
I'm getting my DHA.
Omega 3s.
And the EPA.
This is basically
vegan fish oil.
LISA CARR: Right.
What's its source?
What's the plant source?
It's from a red algae.
LISA CARR: Algae.
Yeah.
So that's where it comes from.
All of our fish oil
originally comes from krill.
Where does a krill get it?
Krill gets it from algae.
So the algae, the
phytoplankton, are doing
an incredible magic trick.
They're taking raw sun energy,
and they're fixating carbon,
and they're forming long
chain carbon oils that we
call fish oil from nothing.
LISA CARR: Interesting.
So you're getting D3.
To me, that's-- you're
getting the D3, exactly.
You're getting the omega
3 long chain, DHA and EPA.
We've also got in
here DPA, which
is another long
chained omega 3 that's
normally present in fish.
And then we've got
astaxanthin in here.
So I take one or two
or three of those a day
with, actually-- this
is a good combination.
This is some I've mentioned on
your show befora-- MegaHydrate.
LISA CARR: Yes.
-Right.
So we've got
MegaHydrate right there.
This is an amazing supplement
for hydration in general,
because it's a
hydrogen compound.
Basically, what it
is is silica hydride,
which is a bucky ball,
globular molecule
that is saturated with
oleic acid, which is an oil.
And then that oil is
saturated with hydrogen.
LISA CARR: Wow.
It's a product that was
developed by my friend
Dr. Patrick Flanagan.
-Right.
Flanagan.
-Yeah.
-Brilliant.
-And he's a genius.
He's one of the great
geniuses of our time.
What is it?
-Yeah, check it out.
-Is it pill form?
-And they're in capsule form.
-Oh, capsule forms.
Yeah, vegetarian caps.
And you can just pop
those in with oils.
I definitely recommend that
you take those with oils,
because it will shield
the oils from being broken
down prematurely and oxidizing.
One of the great problems
with fish oils-- people
are taking it, and it's
oxidizing in their gut.
And they're burping it
up, and it's still there.
Right.
And when you take
it with MegaHydrate,
it shields the oil
from being oxidized.
So it actually
gets to the cells.
And it's something
you notice if you
do it both ways after a while,
you have an instinct that
tells you, take it with this.
That's something that
Patrick told me himself.
He's like, this is
how you should do it.
LISA CARR: Yes.
Brilliant scientist.
It's a good trick
to know about.
LISA CARR: Yes.
And this the strongest
antioxidant product
on the market as well.
So it's a hydrogen source.
It shields volatile elements
like the fish oils or
the algae oils from oxidation.
And then on top of that,
it's an antioxidant.
And all of this is anti-aging.
DAVID WOLFE: All of it.
Explain why, though.
Explain why.
Well, we've found
out that there
are certain chemistries
that are related
to protecting us from aging.
One of them is antioxidants
and hydrogen. Hydrogen
is our best antioxidant.
The more antioxidants we
have, the more shielded
we are from the atmosphere.
They it reverse it, reverse
the aging process as well?
I hope so.
It takes a long
time get younger,
but I feel like I'm
getting younger.
It's taking a while.
I didn't mean to interrupt you.
You said the oxidation
from the atmosphere?
Yeah, so the atmosphere
that we have on this planet
is good for us in a certain way.
We breathe it and we live on it.
But is it an ideal
atmosphere for us?
And the answer appears to be
no, is that it burns us up,
is that eventually, we get
burned by the atmosphere.
And that's called oxidation.
That's free radical damage.
LISA CARR: OK.
The idea, then, is that we
have to counterbalance it
with antioxidants
so that we don't
get as oxidized over our years
of breathing this atmosphere.
LISA CARR: Wow.
What an education that
we've just received.
I mean, this is many
different things.
But the whole concept here
is that you can heal yourself
through nature, that
you just need to play
with the right combinations.
You can look at this
show, watch this show,
and just freeze frame
it and just take down
all the stuff that David uses.
Or you can go and do
your own exploration.
You really cannot overdose
on any of this stuff.
It's all relatively safe.
And your body will tell you.
DAVID WOLFE: Your body's
going to tell you.
This is real food.
That's the thing about raw
foods, is your body has a stop.
When you're dealing
with the real raw food,
your body goes, OK, that's too
much, or that's not enough,
or we need more of this.
And one of the reasons why we
like to offer an array of all
these amazing things
is because you
never know what you need when.
You might suddenly
be pregnant, and go,
I need avocado with
spirulina and flaxseed oil.
That's right.
Your body tells you
exactly what you need.
Yep.
But you know, if you
never had flaxseed
oil or avocado or spirulina,
you wouldn't know that.
LISA CARR: Right.
-Right?
So you're going to
reach for a toxic mimic
of that, a toxic impostor.
So we're trying to
get back to the base
formulas, the original stuff.
And then people
go, you know what?
OK, let me try that, try this.
And then eventually, you
start to know-- like, OK,
I want that.
I want this.
Oh, I can tell you that what
I just took-- the last thing,
I took my body
instantly absorbed
and said, that-- I need that.
It was the bark.
-Oh, the bark thing.
The bark thing.
It just went--
Anti-inflammatory.
And David Wolfe is actually 80.
And this all works for
him to look like he's 40.
Well, definitely take
this show and replay it.
Watch it again.
Share it with your friends.
Thank you so much, David.
DAVID WOLFE: Thank you so much.
You are a fountain of youth
and a wealth of information.
Thank you.
It's been great to be
here with everybody.
Thank you all.
-So fun.
We finally got to see
into David's medicine bag.
All right.
Thank you again.
And watch the replay,
share it with your friends,
and until next time, I
invite you to stay inspired.